hey everyone Sylvia Perez here joining
you from London today which is really
exciting and in this episode of
advertising thoughts I want to talk
about how you can get started
advertising on new channels so if you're
considering advertising on new ad
platforms next year that can definitely
feel overwhelming so my goal with this
video is that you can walk away with
this with some practical steps that you
can take to get started and to diversify
your channel mix because if you have all
of your eggs in one basket so to speak
then that's a huge concentration risk so
if all your traffic is coming from let's
say Facebook ads God forbid your
Facebook ad account got banned right now
that's really going to cause a huge
disruption in terms of your acquisition
and hitting your goals and you don't
want that so with that being said let's
dive into it and I have all the steps
here on my iPad so I don't miss any now
step number one to get started with new
ad channels is to create a free ad
account it doesn't cost you anything
whatever platform you're considering so
if you want to get started on Tick Tock
like I did earlier this year I went to
tick tock's website I signed up for a
free ad account all you have to do is
put a card on file but they don't charge
you anything until you actually launch a
campaign so no worries so whatever that
platform is for you go to that platform
sign up for their ads manager and start
to go and deep dive into the actual ads
manager so what you're going to want to
be looking for are things like what type
of audiences do they support so when you
actually go into the ads manager create
a draft campaign so pretend like you're
going to create a real one but look
through all of the different components
that they have so starting from the very
high level what type of objectives do
they support can they support a lead
generation based objective so I can
drive capture and direct response do
they drive conversions do they support
awareness so if I want to distribute
content you know what are all the
different objectives they have from
there dive a layer deeper what type of
audiences do they allow me to build so I
know hey can I use this ads manager can
I use this platform to get in front of
my ideal customer so dive a little
deeper so for example with tick tock I
would say the the closest equivalent to
tick tock is probably something like
Facebook because Tick Tock like Facebook
is targeting based on interest or
certain topics they do allow you to
Target based on hashtags which is much
more granular but it's not as refined
and precise as LinkedIn which has over
200 plus characteristics that you can
use from like firmographic and all these
different things in order to reach a
specific person so it's a little bit
broader so deep dive into the audience
targeting and see how can you use this
platform and where would it if it is
going to work where would it fit in
terms of your channel mix will it be
more of you in our top of funnel
creation activities could you use it
more bottom of funnel for capture Etc so
on and so forth and the other thing I'd
highly recommend you do is once you're
exploring this ads manager take a look
at the conversion tracking section and
you want to see how can you track
conversions and really the two big
things that I'm looking for is do they
support uh pixel based conversions so
client-side tracking and then do they
support offline conversions which is
server-side tracking if they support
office flank conversions that's a huge
Plus in my book because that means
you're gonna be able to track inversions
and feed that platform's algorithm in a
much more enhanced way and if you want
more videos on offline conversions all
that stuff let me know in the comments
down below so with that you've created
the free ad account you've deep dived
you've really done that that first
assessment
the next thing you're going to do is you
want to go ahead and actually use the
platform so I always recommend to
clients that if you're going to get
started an advertising platform for the
first time the first thing you want to
do is you want to you want to know what
it's like to be an actual user of that
platform so I recommend that you use
that platform for at least one month
straight so every single day for one
month you are active on that platform so
for example for me when I started
getting into Tick Tock earlier this year
I created the ads manager I looked
through all the targeting options I saw
the supported conversion tracking I also
saw two in terms of audiences that I
could upload customer lists I was like
that's really cool and then the next
thing I did was like okay I need to
learn Tick Tock right because if I'm
going to run ads here I know I need to
know what it's like to be the end user
receiving the ads so that way when I
create ads I can create ads that are
native to the platform so that when my
ad comes in somebody's news feed the
first thing they see is they're not like
it doesn't scream it's an ad and they
just kind of it seems out of place and
they just keep scrolling through it can
catch their attention and create a
pattern or erupt and it looks like it
belongs on that feed where they're
scrolling through so what I did was
every single day for a month I got into
Tick Tock and I used Tick Tock I opened
the app multiple times a day actually
got hooked which is kind of the bad part
of this is if the platform is really
good you can get addicted so just you
know calling that out but it's
worthwhile and then from there you know
you dive into it so like with Tick Tock
they have different capabilities like
you can do
um you know they have different like
trending sounds you can all this like
just the search Discovery so really just
use the platform and deep dive into it
even take it a step further if you want
and watch YouTube videos on how to use
the platform like really go all in so
for you if that's Tick Tock do that for
tick tock if that's Reddit go into
Reddit create an account get active in
different threads you know really see
what it's like to be an end user so that
way when you start to create your ads
you know what it's going to be like
being the person who will be seeing your
ads on the other side
so that's the next step then finally
when you are in that process as well and
you're you know really consuming the
content make sure you document anything
you come across whether that's ads or
posts like just organic posts that
caught your attention and really like
captured your interest because if it
captured your interest as a marketer who
is like the most jaded individual you
know all the tricks in the book Etc so
if it worked for you the chances that
it's going to work for your actual ideal
customer is very very likely so go ahead
and document take screenshots and
pictures you could actually save certain
Tick Tock videos too which is really
cool for tick tock specifically but like
if it's Twitter for you get active on
Twitter really learn what it's like to
be a Creator on Twitter and you know a
user and and just get there's no
shortage of what counts as good
inspiration take it from all sources and
that's going to be really key so from
there you created your free ad account
you deep dive you're like this makes
sense I can see how I can use this you
know what it's like to actually use the
platform so you can create content
that's native to it the next thing
you're going to do is you're going to
want to create a test campaign and for
this test campaign I recommend you know
it could be a budget less than a
thousand dollars you're not trying to
get rich here you're not trying to you
know drive hit all your pipeline and
revenue targets all you're trying to do
with this test campaign is you're trying
to get a baseline to understand what are
your real costs for this channel so for
going back to the tick tock example I
launched a lead generation campaign and
I launched it for I think it was like
200 bucks at first it wasn't even a
thousand dollars and I just wanted to
see what is going to be my average cost
per click what is going to be my my cost
per thousand Impressions my CPM if it's
like awareness based and from there once
I know my CPC then I can I can backtrack
and I can say okay if I have an average
cost per click of five dollars and I'm
driving people to this form what is the
conversion rate that I need in order to
make this channel work at these cost
metrics right so it gives you that first
initial Baseline to understand am I
fighting a winnable fight which is is
half the battle because if the numbers
don't make sense from the outset then it
doesn't matter and you could be like you
could have all the best everything but
it won't work for you because just the
numbers don't add up right the economics
aren't there so run this test campaign
less than a thousand dollars if you're
really strapped for cash I mean you
could even just do for a hundred just to
get initial baselines of just what is my
average cost per click and then from
there you can back Factor what are the
conversion rates that I need et cetera
et cetera now once you've done this
your three huge things are going to come
out of it number one it doesn't take
very long right so if you're the the
commitment to starting to a new channel
it only really takes a month and that's
if you're really doing your due
diligence but you could even do it like
in 14 days if you're just like obsessed
and going all in on that platform but by
you doing this it's really going to make
you simplify things and get started on
that platform so
I hope this was helpful just to recap
create that free ad account get in there
get your hands dirty see the conversion
tracking check out the audience criteria
the objectives all things like that
right get into the platform from there
become a user get obsessed with it do
everything you can to learn about that
platform understand how to like almost
like if you wanted to become a creator
of that platform how would you do that
understand what it's like to be the end
user so that way you have empathy when
you create ads for that they're going to
see in the future is going to be key and
then finally run a quick test campaign
right less than a thousand bucks just
get those baselines understand what is
my cost per click what would be the
conversion rates that I need if you are
driving capture campaigns then what were
your conversion rates that you were able
to generate with your first go around
right and then from there if it makes
sense to continue then go ahead and
launch more campaigns with more
attention and more effort right more
time input and towards creative strategy
Etc so that you can really start to run
through that process of trying to get
this channel to work for you so I hope
this video is valuable if you have any
questions drop them in the comments
below I'm trying to take q a for
different uh you know episodes on
Advertising thoughts so if you have any
questions that you want me to answer in
a future video let me know in the
comments section and with that if you
want more content around B2B advertising
be sure to follow and I'll see you in
the next one